In this project, we focused on one of the past machine learning competitions from Kaggle – Dogs vs Cats, whose goal is to design a state-of-the-art algorithm to distinguish dogs from cats. Based on the requirement, we implemented both the traditional CNN network and advanced techniques like transfer learning in pre-trained models like VGG16 to solve the classification problem. The final results demonstrated the excellent performance and superiority of transfer learning and we also brought forward some available ideas for further improvements on this binary classification task.
The organization of the report: Firstly, we would download and explore the corresponding cat and dog image datasets with 25000 training data and 12500 test data; Secondly, we preprocessed the collected data and generated different labels for different images: 1 represents dog and 0 represents cat; Thirdly, we implement-ed the traditional deep-learning model – CNN model for binary classification; Fourthly, we revised our model with the implementation of transfer learning like feature extrac-tion and fine-tuning through VGG16 convolutional neural network. Finally, we compared our two different methods and other competitors’ methods in the same Kaggle compe-tition and brought forward some available ideas for further improvements on this bina-ry classification task.
The role of each file: The main file is the CNN.py file which shows the traditional CNN method for binary classmation. Besides, another two files: VGG16(Feature Extraction).py and VGG16(Fine Tuning).py demonstrate the application of transfer learning in binary classification.
The packages required to run the code:  TensorFlow, Keras, os, pandas, NumPy, hypopt, Scikit-learn, matplotlib, seaborn, etc.
